JPA allows a spring boot application to communicate with a relational database.
In this lesson, you will install two dependencies h two as well as JPA.
So why are we installing these dependencies?
Well, h two provides an in-memory relational database.
No rest API is complete unless it's persisting data to a database in production.
In real life you would use a database management system like MySQL or PostgreSQL which will persist
your data to disk.
But because we're still in the development stage, we're still prototyping, we're going to set up a
relational database through the H2 management system.
Our H2 relational database will be entirely in memory.
The in-memory database is volatile, and by default all of its data will be lost every single time we
restart the application.
But right now we don't really care about durability.
This suits our purposes because all we want to do is interact with an SQL database and H two is going
to be very fast and lightweight, which is perfect for prototyping.
I actually prefer this while I'm developing because every time I make a new change to my schema, I
want to start fresh.
Now.
The starter project is actually the same as the final solution for Workbook 9.3.
So if you want to continue with your code, feel free.
But if you feel like you made a mistake somewhere, please open the starter project for this lesson
by following this path and your course resources.
All right.
We can set up a relational database using H two by simply adding the dependency to our XML.
So since I'm using VS code, what I'm going to do is right click and then press on add starters because
I'm going to be adding some starter dependencies.
I will add the dependency FX to.
And then I will add the dependency spring JPA.
Now.
I hesitated showing you this method of adding dependencies because I want it to be fair to the intelligent
users and just use the central maven repo as they would.
An equivalent to the extension that I'm using for ontology would be to use the Spring Boot assistant,
which I'm honestly not a big fan of.
I would recommend just going to the Central Maven repo and so you would just have to look up Maven to
dependency.
It would eventually take you here.
And when you're adding this dependency, let me just stop the runtime for myself.
A scope of test means this dependency will not be required during the runtime of the application and
it's only going to be used for testing purposes.
Please make sure to change the scope from test to runtime because this dependency will be required at
runtime.
I've already added it, so I will remove it.
And another dependency you will have to add would be JPA, which once again you can grab from the central
maven repo.
And that's all for the dependencies we need to add.
So this dependency will provide the FX two database and this dependency will allow us to interact with
it.
And now if we were to run our application by virtue of just adding these dependencies, Spring Boot
will spin up an in-memory SQL database.
How would we access it?
We need to configure some things inside of our application properties file.
I left you a file inside of your resources folder.
Please copy its contents over here.
So this file enables the UI allowing us to visualize the contents of our database.
We can access the console by setting a path.
So by writing local host 882 we will see the H two console and this URL is the location.
We can connect to our database through the following URL.
You can feel free to modify the location to whatever you want.
I just think great submission makes sense and automatically Spring Boot is going to spin up an in-memory
SQL database that we can now connect to.
So what I'll do is I will go to local host 8080 slash h two.
There seems to be a problem.
All my dependencies are fine.
So what I'm going to do is actually rerun the application.
Because it seems like one of the changes didn't get picked up.
Should be fine.
Beautiful.
So the URL that we need to connect to our database has already been specified for us.
If for some reason you don't see it, make sure to copy it from your application properties.
And now by pressing Kinect we can view the console of the database our app is connected to.
Another item in our agenda.
How will we actually talk to our database?
The spring JPA dependency that we just added provides an object relational mapper, which is essentially
a layer that allows our Spring Boot app to communicate with a relational database.
Now that we're done setting up our project, it's time to persist some data.